# Reflections

1) The effects of the P, I and D components of the PID controller algorithm are approximately what I expected. In particular, the *proportial* hyperparameter K\_p has a very direct effect in reducing the cross-track error by always pulling the car towards the target position (assuming no bias). However, in doing so, the proportional term alone would lead the car to oscillate around the target position (assuming no bias). <br />
The objective of the *derivative* hyperparameter K\_d is to regulate the pull towards the target carried out by the proprtional term. In other words, the derivative term will make sure that this pull gets smaller and smaller as the car appropaches the target. <br />
The *integral* hyperparameter K\_i is ideal for dealing with any biases that might affect the system. In fact, as time passes, if the car is consistently off the target position, the integral hyperparameter will pick up on that and exert an extra pull towards the target. When experimenting with the simulation I found out that the integral term can also help dealing with sharp and long turns on the road by allowing the car to more easily fall back to the target position. 

2) In order to tune the final hyperparameters (K\_p, K\_d and K\_i) I set the initial values to be 0.2, 3.0 and 0.004 for K\_p, K\_d and K\_i, respectively. Initially, I tried to optimise the hyperparameters using Gradient Descent without much success. Then, I decided to inspect the results visually and try to tune the hyperparameters manually. <br />
The initial set of hyperparameters could more or less drive the car around the track. However, it was far from ideal as the car would often oscillate wildly around the target position and eventually drive off road (potentially after a few laps). Hence, I decided to make the proportional hyperparameter K\_p smaller in order to decrease the frequency of fluctuations around the target. Moreover, I slightly increased the derivative hyperparameter K\_d in order to allow the car to approach the target position, i.e. the center of the lane, more smoothly. Finally, I decided to decrease the magnitude of the integral hyperparameter K\_i as I assumed no large biases in the system. I found it important to keep this parameter non-zero for extra help during turns. On the other hand, I wished to make K\_i smaller in order to avoid a large over-shoot at the very beginning when the starts from an off-center position. After setting the final hyperparameters to K\_p = 0.15, K\_d = 3.2 and K\_i = 0.002, the car was able to drive quite smoothly around track.


